---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 5"
date:   2020-10-08 13:52:00 -0700
categories: ubuntu ssh security
---

## How To Install An SSH Key

This is another continuation from my [previous blog post](https://ethanleiter.github.io/ubuntu/ssh/security/2020/09/25/blog-4.html), where I explained how to generate an SSH key. This time we'll go into the process of installing the key into a new server.

# Setting Up The SSH Directory (On Server)

Once you've followed the steps from the previous post and generated your SSH key, then you'll need to make sure that there is an `.ssh` directory in your `/home/username` directory. The directory path should be:
`/home/username/.ssh`

Within that directory, you'll need to create a new file called `authorized_keys` which can be completed with the following command while in that directory:
`touch authorized_keys`

The `touch` command creates an empty file with the name that follows the command in the current directory your in. For the SSH key to work, we'll need to have the `authorized_keys` file in your hidden `.ssh` directory.

After the `.ssh` directory and `authorized_keys` file have been created. Next will be copying the key over to the server from your local computer.

# Installing the Key (From Client to Server)
**Please keep in mind** Make sure when you're copying the key to only copy the .pub version and keep the private key on your local machine!

While writing this tutorial, I recently learned that there's a new command which makes this a lot easier so you don't even need to worry about accidentally copying the private key, you can now run the following command to copy the public key over to the server:
`ssh-copy-id -i /.ssh/my_key username@server`

This will attempt to connect to the server with your username and will most likely prompt you for a password, and then automatically copy the public key and paste it into the `authorized_keys` file.

You can verify this by signing back into the server and using `cat ~/.ssh/authorized_keys` which should print out text containing a copy of the public SSH key in the previously empty file.

# Testing the SSH Key
After you've confirmed that the SSH key has been added to the `authorized_keys` file, you can sign out of the server and attempt to login using the new SSH key with the following command:
`ssh -i my_key username@server`

If the key has been successfully installed, you'll automatically be signed in (unless you implemented a password on your SSH key, in which you'll need to enter the password first) and have access to the server!

With SSH keys, you'll be able to have a more secure server than with using traditional passwords, and can automate processes much easier by leveraging SSH keys for authentication instead of needing to store passwords in plain text scripts or requiring manual input to submit the password while running the scripts.
