---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 11"
date:   2020-11-19 23:00:00 -0700
categories: dns ip address server
---

## What is DNS and why do we need it?
Do you recall the old days when you had to remember someone's phone number in order to call them?

Great! Now imagine that with the internet, where you'd have to remember the IP address of a website that you're trying to connect.

To make matters more complicated, imagine trying to remember the exact directory name if that website is being hosted on a shared server with hundreds of other websites. It would be the equivalency of memorizing an office phone number and exact extension, and needing to manually input it every time you wanted to call someone.

Thankfully we live in the modern era, where *modern problems, require modern solutions*. Our answer to not needing to remember a friend's phone number is by having contacts set in our phone through a phonebooking/contacts app, where knowing that person's name allows us to route directly to their phone number without needing to manually input the number itself.

Now you also know what DNS is used for!

# It works like a phonebook

DNS stands for Domain Name System, and it works similarly to the contacts apps in our mobile phones. Instead of needing to remember IP addresses to access our favorite websites, we simply have to remember the domain name or URL (Uniform Resource Locator).

Through a series of global servers (or even local ones if you would like to run your own custom DNS server), you can access a website such as www.csun.edu instead of needing to input 130.166.238.195!

# You can run your own DNS server!

Setting up your own DNS server can be quite simple, and many companies use it for their own local [intranet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intranet).

One of the benefits of setting up your own DNS server is that you can create your own custom domains and manually point them to specific IP addresses, both locally and externally as long as any machine that requests it is pointing to your DNS server!

Another important benefit of setting up a DNS server is that you can control which external IPs you would like to access, both to and from the machines that are routing data through your DNS server. This can be done through a process known as [black holing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_hole_(networking) which operates similarly to how a firewall blocks an IP address from being accessed, except you can block traffic for that IP address in both directions for anything that resolves through your DNS server.

This can allow you to block pesky ads on your phone or personal computers without needing to install an adblocking tool on each device, since you're doing it at the network level. A common implementation of this is [pi-hole](https://pi-hole.net/).

 
For more information on how to set up your own DNS server, please [click this link](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-configure-bind-as-a-private-network-dns-server-on-ubuntu-18-04)
