---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1"
date:   2020-09-09 17:02:25 -0700
categories: ubuntu lamp linux apache mysql php
---

# How To Set Up a LAMP Stack

In both the Computer Science/Information Technology careers, development is a common task. There are differences in the IT side (mostly the system administration, implementation, or deployment workflow management, etc.) and the Software Engineer side of actually developing the code.

With applications now moving further into the ever-growing popularity of web applications, it's still important to know how to implement the most commonly used and supported application stack, LAMP.

The LAMP stack is an acronym for Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP. While developers are increasing popularity in newer stacks such as MEAN and other JavaScript based applications, the LAMP stack remains the most common and popular stack for our current time.

Building and implementing a LAMP stack can be done through the following steps:

1. Set up the Linux distro of your choice (Ubuntu, CentOS, etc.).
2. Navigate to the Terminal and type `sudo apt-get update` or `sudo yum update` depending on your distro (I use Ubuntu and will continue referencing Ubuntu in my examples.
3. After the package repo list has completed, run `sudo apt-get install apache2` which will install the Apache web server. You can check the status of Apache by doing `sudo service apache2 status` which will tell you if it's running or stopped.
4. Start the Apache web server with `sudo service apache2 start`.
5. Navigate to <http://localhost> to see the default start page for the Apache web server.
6. Install MySQL Server (for the database) by typing in the Terminal `sudo apt-get install mysql-server` and proceeding with the instructions on screen. After the installation has completed, run `sudo mysql_secure_installation` to complete the configuration.
7. Once the MySQL server has been configured, proceed with installing PHP and the minimal plugins to connect it with MySQL: `sudo apt-get install php php-mysql`.
8. After PHP has completed installing, you can test it by creating an info.php file in /var/www/html that contains `<?php phpinfo(); ?>` and then accessing it through your web browser at <http://localhost/info.php> which will display your PHP configuration if it was properly installed.
9. You can also install a web application for the MySQL server called PHPMyAdmin, which interfaces with the MySQL database server through PHP (a great example to confirm that the LAMP stack has been properly installed) by running `sudo apt-get install phpmyadmin` and proceeding with the instructions from there.
10. After PHPMyAdmin has been installed, you can access the page through <http://localhost/phpmyadmin> and sign in using the credentials that you were prompted to create during the PHPMyAdmin installation.

Once you can confirm accessing the PHPMyAdmin login screen and seeing the databases from MySQL on the web page, you've successfully installed and implemented a LAMP stack server!
