---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3"
date:   2020-09-25 13:52:00 -0700
categories: ubuntu ssh security
---

# How To Generate An SSH Key

This is more of a continuation from my [previous blog post](https://ethanleiter.github.io/ubuntu/ssh/security/2020/09/18/blog-2.html), where I explained the benefits of using an SSH key. This post will be a step by step process on how to generate an SSH key for use.

## System Requirements
In order to generate an SSH key, we'll need access to a console which has the functionality to generate the key. For Mac and Linux users, this is built into the Terminal console.

Unfortunately for Windows systems, they'll need to download a third party program to obtain this functionality as Windows doesn't include it out of the box.

I personally recommend [Git Bash](https://gitforwindows.org), it's a very powerful tool and provides a multitude of functions besides the ability to generate an SSH key.

## Generating the SSH Key

Once you've confirmed having either Terminal or a console that supports SSH key generation such as Git Bash, you can simply generate a new key with the `ssh-keygen` command.

You'll then be prompted with options such as the name of the file that you'd like to save it into (default is id_rsa and ir_rsa.pub).

Another optional decision is including a passphrase for the key, which you can use to require a password when attempting to use the key, a simple implementation of Two-Factor Authentication (2FA).

Once the key generation is complete, you'll be given a text art of the key and confirmation that the key is now available for use.

You can then access the key in the file system, where you'll find the name of the file, and a second file with the name and `.pub` appended at the end of it, to indicate the public key. This group of files is known as the key pair, in which you'll use the public key to add into systems where you'll attempt to access by authenticating with the private key.
