---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 2"
date:   2020-09-17 22:34:25 -0700
categories: ubuntu ssh security
---

# Benefits of Using SSH Keys to Replace Passwords

When it comes to the IT field, security is an ever-expanding sector and is in more demand than ever before. Particularly now as we adjust to the challenges presented with COVID-19 and many companies have found themselves adapting to the new "work from home" work environment, security becomes ever more crucial as others with malicious intent look for new opportunities to exploit for personal gain.

In many places, using a traditional password remains as standard as ever. However in the IT sector, protecting your servers with a regular password simply isn't enough. All public facing servers find themselves getting flooded with login attempts on a daily basis, and while some administrators are aware and savvy enough to protect their systems behind a firewall, there are still many who are not.

One way to really help mitigate and cut down on the potential risk is to replace password logins to servers with SSH key authentication.

Among increased security, here are a few benefits to implementing SSH key authentication:

## No need to remember yet another password
Easily one of the nicest perks to implementing SSH keys is that the key itself is used to authenticate and validate access when connecting to a server, and unless explicity set on the key itself, a password is not necessary.

## Mitigate the risk of the server being compromised from an easy password
In many instances of Linux machines, most servers do not have a strict password requirement, and can lead to a major security risk with how easy it is for modern day computers to brute force a password. With an SSH key, it is virtually impossible to brute force the key (please make sure to use at least 1024 bit keys as they are the current standard for proper key generation), given the size and complexity of the key. For each increased bit, the opportunity to brute force the key decreases at an exponential rate. Meanwhile, password requirements are now changing due to the ease of brute forcing millions of possibilities consisting of a combination of case sensitive letters, numbers, and symbols. Security requirements are now finding that instead of using a complex combination of characters, increasing the password length is more effective to countering the risk of a successful brute force attack.

By using an SSH key, it makes things even easier because you're not required to implement a password with the key based on its already secure nature when compared to a standard password.

## 2FA (Two-Factor Authentication) before it was cool
For those who do want to take the extra step of implementing a password alongside the SSH key, you gain the benefit of adding a second factor to the authentication by including a password when attempting to authenticate with the key. This is easily implemented during the initial key creation process, in which the user gets prompted to include a password but can defer by not inputting anything.

As society continues to rely on technology and we see an increased series of attacks, we're also finding 2FA to be more commonplace in many work and personal environments (using SSO login with 2FA to access company services, Steam Guard 2FA to authorize your login, even Duo for CSUN to successfully access the myNorthridge Portal). SSH keys have an inherent design to include the option of a passworded key, which allows for an easier way to implement 2FA when accessing a system.

## Automation
With SSH keys, having a password isn't required but can still be implemented (see the above point), and remain secure. The biggest benefit to gain from this besides no longer being required to remember yet another password, is that you can automate processes that require a remote connection by using the SSH key for authentication instead of needing to manually input a password when prompted.

SSH key-based authentication allows you to include the key in your service's authentication, which doesn't require a password and enables systems to communicate and access data between each other without requiring user intervention to manually authenticate and grant access.

## Simple revokation
When it's time to revoke someone's access to a system, such as if an employee no longer works at the company, the easiest method is to remove the authorized key from the approved list. Additionally, replacing a compromised key (most likely due to user error) is just as simple and would only take moments to remove the compromised key from the list of authorized keys, generate a new SSH public/private key-pair, and implement the new key pair to replace the compromised one. This is significantly quicker and easier than needing to replace someone's password and spend time coming up with a more secure version. In the time it would take for the user to come up with a new password, the old SSH key has been removed and replaced with a freshly generated, secure one.

One of the first things I do on a fresh system is run an automated script to install an SSH key to the machine and disable password-based authentication. I've seen it far too often when someone provisions a fresh system and continues using regular passwords, only to find within a matter of minutes to months, the system can be compromised due to the millions of requests every second attempting to break into the server until they successfully guess the right combination for a default user.

By implementing SSH keys, you can make a very simple and convenient decision that significantly reduces the risk of compromise and provides you with more peace of mind and efficiency by including the added benefit of automating authentication through the key.
