---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 12"
date:   2020-12-04 20:00:00 -0700
categories: raid server redundancy
---

## What is RAID?

When it comes to technology, uptime is everything. A system that isn't up and running isn't useful (unless you like expensive paper weights).

While hardware has improved over the years, there is still always the risk of failure which can bring down a system. Over time, we've developed tools to help mitigate downtime, by having real time monitoring and notification systems to ping us in the same minute that a system goes down.

However, one of the better tools implemented for uptime is RAID. RAID stands for "Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks" and it works just like how it's defined.

A RAID array allows for redundancy and/or improved performance, by expanding a series of drives and distributing the workload/risk over multiple drives instead of a single point of failure.

RAID offers a series of configurations, the most common being 0, 1, 5, and 10.

# RAID 0

RAID 0 is known as "striping", and it works with a series of disks where the data is written sequentially between each disk, so it gets distributed throughout the cluster. This provides maximum performance since all the disks are being used together for writing and storing data, but provides the least stability, since the entire cluster will fail and data will be lost as soon as one drive fails.

# RAID 1

RAID 1 is known as "mirroring" where you need an even number of disks and they essentially duplicate the data between the disks. It's more fault tolerant because if one drive fails, there will still be a second copy of the data. This means that if there is a drive failure, the system will notify you but continue to run and you can swap out the bad drive with a good one, and the RAID array will re-populate the new drive with the data from the copy.

# RAID 5
RAID 5 is a a distributed parity of striping, meaning that the full file is split across the drive array, which allows for performance and still maintains fault tolerance to the extent of a single drive. Should a single drive fail, you can replace it with a new drive and the remaining cluster will populate the missing data since the files were split between the other drives and it knows how to populate the empty drive. However, this process is called "rebuilding the array" and doing so in RAID 5 requires reading data from all disks, which leaves the chance of a second drive failure and results in the total loss of the array.

# RAID 10
RAID 10, also known as RAID 1+0, is one of the more expensive implementations. Be ready to have many drives on hand, because this configuration is a combination of RAID 1 and 0, where it creates a striped set from a series of mirrored drives. It is considered one of the most stable configurations because it can tolerate multiple drive losses as long as no mirror loses all of its drives, and continue to operate.

**Reminder**

RAID **IS NOT** to be relied upon for backup purposes. RAID's sole purpose is to ensure that a system stays up and running or has maximum performance through an array of multiple disks. This does not mean that your data is completely safe in the event of an outage, and you should absolutely backup your important data onto a separate drive or machine as RAID is not a source of backup.

Think of it as having multiple studs to a structure. One of the studs can be replaced or break away and the building will remain standing. If enough of them break, then the building will collapse. It's important to be able to replace those missing/damaged studs quickly.

