---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 7"
date:   2020-10-23 15:00:00 -0700
categories: ubuntu ssl security
---

## Benefits to Using an SSL Certificate

As security continues to grow and become a thriving sector in IT, so do the increasing tools and policies related to it.

In recent years, we've seen an exponential growth in the implementation of SSL certificates as a method of ensuring an encrypted and secure connection between a web server and the client.

However, while not every site requires an SSL certificate (think that localhost:8080 web app you've been working on for months), there are great benefits to utilizing it in most implementations.

Here are a few reasons for why you should use SSL certificates:

# 1. Security
The principle of SSL certificates works in the same way as SSH keys. A public/private key pair are used to authenticate and confirm secure access between two systems (client and server) attempting to communicate and transmit data between each other.

SSL certificates provide an encrypted channel to ensure that the data transmitted between the two systems is unreadable if intercepted (provided you're using an up to date TLS protocol and strong certificate algorithm) and the only way one can read the data between the two systems is by having the same key pair as the client and server.

# 2. Authentication/Identity
Alongside the security aspect, SSL certificates are also designed to ensure that the URL you're visiting is trusted, as the certificate was signed and verified to be pointing to the matching domain it's registered to.

This is why you may have noticed the traditional green lock in the past when accessing an SSL secure website through Chrome and Firefox in the past, and how you would receive warnings when attempting to access a website that was using an expired or unmatching SSL certificate to the domain it was requesting.

Utilizing SSL certificates helps identify and confirm that the website you're visiting is properly registered and you are not being MITM (man in the middle) attacked with someone redirecting you elsewhere.

# 3. SEO (Search Engine Optimization)
While SEO is a separate sector and career in IT, there is still some overlap as with many other concepts. [Google and other search engines have made it clear that they'll prioritize SSL encrypted websites over non-encrypted ones](https://searchengineland.com/google-starts-giving-ranking-boost-secure-httpsssl-sites-199446). Not only will your website be more secure, it will give you a boost in page rankings simply by showing search engines and users that you care about both you and their security when accessing your website.

# 4. Easy To Install
Most control panels (GoDaddy, cPanel, Direct Admin) support implementing SSL certificates through a quick series of steps that allow you to manually generate a new certificate or install an existing one right into their systems. Even CloudFlare allows for a hybrid certificate system if you don't have an SSL certificate implemented on the server side.

# 5. It's [Free!](https://letsencrypt.org/)
Thanks to the ongoing push for increased web security and the recognized importance of implementing solutions such as SSL certificates by tech giants, we've seen a number of available options ranging from paid to free and automated for people to apply SSL certificates to their websites.

Let's Encrypt is a popular certificate generator and validator that allows you to install and implement an SSL certificate for free. Not only that, but it also has enhancements that can supplement it to allow for automated certificate renewals and new installations, making the implementation that much easier!

\
\
With all of this in mind, it makes implementing and using SSL certificates less trenous and far more appealing than when they first started appearing online. Do you need an SSL certificate for your local machine's dev environment or a storage server accessible only within your local network? Probably not. But anything that's public facing should raise concern about properly being secured. As technology continues to advance, so does security and automation, and it's important for us to stay ahead with it to ensure that technology can be reliable and safe for years to come.
