---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8"
date:   2020-10-29 15:00:00 -0700
categories: security ssl letsencrypt certbot
---

## Let's Encrypt - The Free SSL Certificate

As SSL certificates continue to increase in usage for most of the internet to help ensure website identity and security, we find ourselves with many options for obtaining and installing an SSL certificate.

Most of these options are paid. However, with the help of companies such as Mozilla, Cisco, and Google, there is also a free and simple alternative.

Enter [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org), a free tool that allows you to generate trusted SSL certificates with ease.

Now, you have many options with how to implement Let's Encrypt.

A lot of hosting companies now provide the choice of manually installing your own certificate by purchasing one through a third party company, or automating the install by having you answer a few simple questions and verifying the ownership of the domain that you're obtaining the certificate for.

In many of these cases, you can simply go to the hosting panel (commonly cPanel or DirectAdmin) and go to the SSL settings where you can click a button labeled along the lines of "Generate a Free SSL certificate with Let's Encrypt", where the entire process is automated and will be generated and applied to your website with a single click.

However, for those who are the web hosts or prefer to host their websites on a separate machine instead of through a shared hosting platform like cPanel, they can also simply install Let's Encrypt through a command line. They can also supplement it with an additional install called certbot which automates the installation and management of these SSL certificates.

To install Let's Encrypt and certbot, you can go to the official [Certbot](https://certbot.eff.org) and proceed with the instructions from there.

All you'll need to know is what web server (Apache, NGINX, etc.) platform you're running, and the operating system of the machine (Ubuntu, Debian, CentOS) that hosts it.

After picking out the exact web server and operating system, you'll receive a detailed series of steps (usually not more than 3-5 commands) that will allow you to quickly install Let's Encrypt and its automated certbot manager.

Once the installation has completed, you'll be able to follow the documentation listed online and begin generating and installing SSL certificates for your website in a matter of seconds, where all of the manual labor is conveniently automated for you and certificate renewals can be automated as well!

Projects such as Let's Encrypt help benefit society because it makes the importance of security (encrypting and securing a connection between a client and a web server) much easier, so people can enjoy the positives of security without the negatives of expert implementation and configuration.
