---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6"
date:   2020-10-16 12:54:00 -0700
categories: ubuntu ssh security
---

## Simple Server Security Tricks

When spinning up a new server, it's important to apply a few changes right from the beginning to ensure that the server can be properly secured, as there are thousands of computers scanning the internet for new systems and trying to break in by bruteforcing usernames and passwords.

Here are a few tricks you can do to help protect your server and lower the risk of being compromised:

# Implement an SSH Key
Based on my [earlier posts](https://ethanleiter.github.io/ubuntu/ssh/security/2020/10/08/blog-5.html), you can install and implement an SSH key within the server, which is a lot stronger than your traditional username and password combination. However this will need to be paired with disabling username and password authentication in order to force only SSH key authentication, which is significantly harder to brute force or break into compared to your average username and password.

# Disabling Username and Password Authentication
After implementing SSH key authentication, the next best thing is to disable username and password authentication since you're already using the key. By disabling the password authentication, it prevents anyone else who doesn't have the key from successfully accessing the server.

This can be done by editing the `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` file and changing the `PasswordAuthentication` line from `yes` to `no`.

After making that change, restart your SSH configuration by running `sudo service ssh restart` and it will apply the new change to the settings.

You can test and verify that this works by attempting to sign into the system without your SSH key and seeing that you immediately get rejected because you're not authenticating with the key.

# Disabling Root Authentication
Another simple but very important change to make, disabling anyone from being able to authenticate into the server with the root user.

This change can also be done in the `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` file by changing the `PermitRootLogin` value to `no` and again restarting the SSH service.

Keep in mind, this only prevents an outsider from logging in as the root user and doesn't disable it entirely, so if you need to use the root user, it can still be done if you're in the server and switch to the user, such as through `sudo su`.


\
\
While these are all minor changes, they can add up and play an important role when being combined with each other or more changes that aren't listed here. The more secure your server is, the less you have to worry about being attacked or compromised. Additional changes that are more complex would be adding a firewall or using IP filtering for authentication, but that's geared towards advanced users or high profile environments that require stricter security implementations to properly safeguard their data.
