---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9"
date:   2020-11-06 15:00:00 -0700
categories: security dos ddos
---

## What is a (D)DOS?

As we continue to find ourselves relying more and more on technology, there are also growing concerns with security around that technology. One example of this is a DOS or DDOS.

> What is a DOS?

You most likely find yourself asking what this is.

DOS stands for Denial of Service, and it works similar to asking your parents for money. The first few times, they may give it to you, after a certain point, they may begin to hesitate or slow down while giving it to you. Eventually, it will reach a point where they say "no money" or flat out "no".

This is similar to how a DOS operates, where a single connection makes repeated requests to the server for a file/page until it eventually overwhelms the server's resources (could be CPU, RAM, or allocated bandwidth) and the server begins to slow down and eventually fail to deliver the requested item to the client.

## What is a DDOS?

A DDOS is the same thing as a DOS except it's distributed! This means that the spammed requests are  occurring from more than one system or location. DDOS attacks have become very common on the internet as a method of taking down sites (think when PSN went down multiple times during the same year by "[Lizard Squad](https://www.polygon.com/2016/10/7/13202218/infamous-lizard-squad-attacks-on-sony-microsoft-lead-to-federal-charges)").

DDOS attacks have been proven to be more effective by design. It offers more resources (flooding requests from more than one machine and location), which makes it much harder to simply blacklist an IP or two and stop.

In many cases, we've seen DDOS attacks that take control of several thousand machines and have enough bandwidth to cripple large websites and applications such as Sony's PlayStation Network or Microsoft's Xbox LIVE services.

Unfortunately, it is also a very cheap and simple action to complete, with many black hat forums offering DDOS services online for less than a cup of coffee from Starbucks, and it can be quite expensive for businesses or individuals to defend against them, but as we continue to grow in our daily usage of technology, we're finding better ways to improve our security and implement cheaper methods of protection against these malicious attack vectors.
