---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3 (Spring)"
date:   2021-03-04 17:02:25 -0700
categories: ping linux windows mac
---

## Using the traceroute command
The `traceroute` command is another valuable tool in a technical skillset. While the `ping` command is good for testing the latency of an IP/domain, or verifying that it is responding or is currently up, the `traceroute` command is like a "gps" for following where the IP address or domain routes through.

As the [internet is a series of routers](https://us.norton.com/internetsecurity-iot-smarter-home-what-is-router.html), it is sometimes important to understand what route your data is traveling through when reaching its destination.

In the same way that you wouldn't take a series of repetitive turns and streets when attempting to reach your destination, using the `traceroute` command is helpful to see what the route is and whether it makes sense.

For example, you can do `traceroute www.csun.edu` and it will tell you the list of IP addresses or domains/subdomains that your request travels through before reaching CSUN's website. This is an important tool when troubleshooting issues such as slow loading times, because on occasion, you can find that the [route the request is taking isn't always the most efficient](https://quickpacket.com/billing/knowledgebase/34/Advanced-Network-Troubleshooting-Using-traceroute.html), such as in one case where you attempt to access CSUN's website, but ineffiency in the routers is directing you from Northridge through Japan or Europe and then back to CSUN. This can result in timeouts and severely slow loading times, rather than routing you directly from Northridge through a nearby route for shorter path and delivery times.

The `traceroute` tool can also be used for testing and determining where a packet/request is being dropped, as in what point or router the request stalls and fails to proceed further. This can be helpful when identifying a point of failure within the network, to find which specific point your request gets dropped or fails to continue forward. It can be valuable to determine whether the issue with accessing a website is on your end, your internet service provider (ISP), the main internet backbone, or the website's end.

For more information on traceroutes, feel free to [click here](https://www.liquidweb.com/kb/how-to-use-traceroute/).
