---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 7 (Spring)"
date:   2021-04-15 13:00:25 -0700
categories: ubuntu commands
---

## Handful of Important Commands for Linux

When traversing on the roads, it's important to know which road you're on and the other roads and objects around you. In the same way, it's just as important to know what directory you're currently working in and which files are in the directory that you're making changes to.
<br>
Here are a couple of commands that are important for navigating through a Linux OS:

# ls command
The `ls` command is used for listing the files in the current directory that you're working in, and can include parameters that can change the formatting of the results or filter by specific file types or strings to further refine your results. For more info, type `ls --help` into the command line.

# cd command
This command is used for navigating through the directories within the operating system and includes shortcuts such as `cd ~` to change back to your user's home directory. It's very common to use the `ls` command in combination with the `cd` command to know which directories to switch to.

# mv command
The `mv` command is used to rename a file, such as when you'd like to rename a misspelled file:

`mv original_file renamed_file`

# mkdir command
This command is used for creating a new directory, and is used like so:
`mkdir dir_name`

# cp command
This command is to make a copy of an existing file/folder, which can be helpful when needing to make a backup of something before making changes, and can also work recursively to backup additional files within a folder:

`cp file_name file_name.bkp`

# rm command
The `rm` command is used for permanently deleting files from your system. It also takes parameters such as recursive and forcing (to execute the command without constantly propmpting the user):

`rm file_name`

<br>

These commands are essential for working your way around a Linux box, and all of them have additional notes that can be accessed either through the manual, `man command` or by typing the command followed by `--help` at the end to provide additional flags and examples.
