---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9 (Spring)"
date:   2021-04-29 14:00:25 -0700
categories: ubuntu
---

## How To Do A System Upgrade in Ubuntu
As mentioned in my [previous blog post](https://ethanleiter.github.io/ubuntu/2021/04/22/blog-8.html), maintaining a system is just as important as maintaining the oil changes on your car or taking care of anything else. Just as you have major updates for Windows (Windows 7, 8, 10) and Mac OSX, you also get system releases with Ubuntu and other Linux flavors.

Unlike Mac OS and Windows, Ubuntu does them for free!

It's important to stay up to date with your Ubuntu release, as they do reach [EOL](https://ubuntu.com/about/release-cycle) after a few years, and these updates are necessary to mitigate the risk of getting hacked from a security vulnerability.

Just as with package updates, it's important to test out a new release update for your operating system as well, since some of the core libraries may be changed and older functionality may be unsupported.

However, it's very simple to complete a system upgrade in Ubuntu. You simply enter the following command into your shell:

`do-release-upgrade`

This initiates the upgrade process and Ubuntu will check its servers to see if a newer version is available. If there is a new release, then it will tell you the size of the download and ask for confirmation to proceed with the upgrade. You will then need to give it some time (can take up to a few hours) while it downloads the new release from the main Ubuntu servers, unpacks, and installs the newer versions over any existing core files and libraries.

Once it has complete, you can run the `do-release-upgrade` command again and confirm that there isn't a newer version available, as it will respond with a message stating "No new release found".
