---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1 (Spring)"
date:   2021-02-25 16:02:25 -0700
categories: cacti
---

## How To Add A Device For Monitoring In Cacti

**Before proceeding, please make sure SNMP is enabled on the device you plan to add into Cacti**

Cacti is an excellent free monitoring tool that can be used to track resource metrics as well as send out alerts for when set thresholds are breached. With this being such an important tool in IT, it should also be important to know how to add a new device to Cacti so you can monitor it.


This also assumes that you followed the instructions from the [previous post on how to install Cacti on an Ubuntu machine](https://ethanleiter.github.io/ubuntu/cacti/2021/02/18/blog-0.html).

# Step 1
Sign into the main console, located at http://your.ip.address/cacti

# Step 2
Click the "Create" menu option and pick "New Device"

# Step 3
Fill in the fields as needed, make sure to put the display name in the "Description" field as this is the label that will be assigned ot the device. And for the "Hostname" field, to put the IP address.

Regarding the SNMP options, keep the version to the default "version 2" as that is the standard setting for most SNMP devices unless there is a specific reason to switch, and set the community string to what you configured on the destination device.

If the device is a linux server, then keep the device template of "Local Linux Machine", but if it is a router, you can choose the "Cisco Router" template or upload a custom template into Cacti.

The rest can be left to its default settings unless specific changes are needed.

# Step 4

Click "Create" and Cacti will save the configuration and add the new device. Upon a successful SNMP connection with the device, it will successfully appear within the Graphs tab of the web interface, where you can view the default configured graphs based on the device template, and add more as needed.

# Complete!

Once you can view the device and its associated metrics in the Cacti graphs tab, then you've successfully added a new device and can add/remove graphs and further modify metrics as needed!
